The project is ready for pushing to production is when we have done

1. Bundling
2. Code Splitting
3. Image Optimization
4. Minification
5. Code compression

6. Bundling
   What it is: Combining many JavaScript (and CSS) files into one or a few files.
   Why: Browsers are slow when they make many network requests.
   Tools: Webpack, Vite, Parcel, Rollup.

7. Code splitting
   is the process of breaking your JavaScript code into smaller pieces (chunks), instead of sending one huge file to the browser.
   The browser then loads only the code it needs right now.
   Other parts are loaded later, on demand.

Why do we need it?
Imagine your app has 1000 lines of code, but the user only sees the homepage first.
Without code splitting:
Browser downloads all 1000 lines immediately → slow load
With code splitting:
Browser downloads only the homepage code → fast load
Other code downloads only when needed (e.g., user clicks “Dashboard”)
This improves performance and user experience.

3. Minification
   What it is:
   Removing things that computers don’t need:
   Spaces
   New lines
   Comments

4. Compression
   Compress files on the server using Gzip or Brotli.
   Reduces download size.

NPM

1. NPM does not stand for Node Package Manager. NPM does not have a fullform.
2. NPM manages packages, so behind the scences its a node package manager but it does not stand for Node Package Manager.
3. NPM is the standard repository for all the packages i.e almost all the packages are hosted in npm.

For All the libraries , the utilites in the project , we can use NPM. It manages all the packages in the project. 4. how to use npm in the project? - npm init
we can use npm init -y , it skips some things but we do not want to skip things so we do npm init. 5. On pressing enter after the command npm init , it asks the following questions >
package name: (namaste-react)
version: (1.0.0)
description: This is React from strach
entry point: (App.js)
test command: jest
git repository: https://github.com/PriyankaAMehta/React-from-Strach/tree/app/ignition
keywords: React from strach, React Series, Learn React
author: Priyanka Mehta
license: (ISC)
About to write to /Users/priyankamehta/Desktop/Namaste React/package.json:

{
"name": "namaste-react",
"version": "1.0.0",
"description": "This is React from strach",
"main": "App.js",
"scripts": {
"test": "jest"
},
"repository": {
"type": "git",
"url": "git+https://github.com/PriyankaAMehta/React-from-Strach.git#app"
},
"keywords": [
"React",
"from",
"strach",
"React",
"Series",
"Learn",
"React"
],
"author": "Priyanka Mehta",
"license": "ISC",
"bugs": {
"url": "https://github.com/PriyankaAMehta/React-from-Strach/issues"
},
"homepage": "https://github.com/PriyankaAMehta/React-from-Strach/tree/app#readme"
}

Is this OK? (yes)

6. package.json file gets added when npm is installed.

What is package.json file which gets added when npm is installed or on npm init ?

1.  It is the configuration for npm.
    So initially right after the npm init is pressed or npm is installed in the project,
    package.json file contains all the above questions in the json format.

2.  Why do we need package.json ?
    npm is the node package manager, It manages all the packages that we install in our project via npm.
    these packages are sometimes also known as dependencies.
    packages and dependencies are same.
    npm manages these dependencies, it takes care of what is the version of these pacakages or dependencies.
    so pacakage.json contains or takes care of the versions of all the packages installed via npm.

3.  Installing dependencies or packages in project.

3.1 -- 1st dependency or package -- PARCEL
BUNDLER - the project contains html, css , js etc files. BUNDLER bunldes all the files together, minifies the project, compresses it before moving our code to production.
Some examples of bundlers used are > webpack, parcel, vite etc

Bundlers are packages. If we want to use a package in our
code, we have to use a package manager.
We use a package manager known as npm or yarn

create-react-app uses webpack as the bundler.
for practice purpose we will now use parcel as bundler.

How to install anz pacakage or dependency from npm?
use npm install <pakage name>

There are 2 types of pacakages or dependencies:

1. dev dependency : is the dependency or packages that we need during development.
2. normal dependency : these are used during development and also during production.

Since we need parcel for Bundling our app to get ready to go to production , we would onlz need it during development.
so we use -D while installing pacakages or dependencies from npm. so the command is npm install -D parcel.

As soon as the PARCEL is installed via npm we have follwing files added :

1. node_modules folder
2. pacakage/lock.json

As pacakage.json is the configuration file for npma dn takes care of all the version of the packages or dependencies added
via npm : the parcel package version is also added in the package.json file as devDependency:
"devDependencies": {
"parcel": "^2.16.3"
}

^ - is the caret
~ - is the tilde

2.3.1 version to 2.3.4 or 2.3.7 is minor version upgrade
but from version 2.3.1 or 2.3.8 to 3.1.0 is a major udpdate.

^ - caret - if there is a minor udpdate in any of the packages , caret will automatically update the package.
~ - tilde - if tilde is used, it will automatically install the major update.

its always safe to use ^ - caret in most of the case because if teh major update is installed , it may break the app because of the other dependencies versions.
